Apache Hadoop
Download
Documentation
Community
Development
Help
Apache Software Foundation
hadoop-logo Apache Hadoop

The Apache™ Hadoop® project develops open-source software for reliable, scalable, distributed computing.

The Apache Hadoop software library is a framework that allows for the distributed processing of large data sets across clusters of computers using simple programming models. It is designed to scale up from single servers to thousands of machines, each offering local computation and storage. Rather than rely on hardware to deliver high-availability, the library itself is designed to detect and handle failures at the application layer, so delivering a highly-available service on top of a cluster of computers, each of which may be prone to failures.



Latest news
Release 3.3.4 available2022 Aug 8
This is a release of Apache Hadoop 3.3 line.

It contains a small number security and critical integration fixes since 3.3.3.

Users of Apache Hadoop 3.3.3 should upgrade to this release.

Users of hadoop 2.x and hadoop 3.2 should also upgrade to the 3.3.x line. As well as feature enhancements, this is the sole branch currently receiving fixes for anything other than critical security/data integrity issues.

Users are encouraged to read the overview of major changes since release 3.3.3. For details of bug fixes, improvements, and other enhancements since the previous 3.3.3 release, please check release notes and changelog.

Release 3.2.4 available2022 Jul 22
This is the third stable release of Apache Hadoop 3.2 line.

It contains 153 bug fixes, improvements and enhancements since 3.2.3.

Users are encouraged to read the overview of major changes since 3.2.3. For details of 153 bug fixes, improvements, and other enhancements since the previous 3.2.3 release, please check release notes and changelog.

Release 2.10.2 available2022 May 31
This is the second stable release of Apache Hadoop 2.10 line.

It contains 211 bug fixes, improvements and enhancements since 2.10.1.

Users are encouraged to read the overview of major changes since 2.10.1. For details of 211 bug fixes, improvements, and other enhancements since the previous 2.10.1 release, please check release notes and changelog.

Release 3.3.3 available2022 May 17
This is the third stable release of the Apache Hadoop 3.3 line.

It contains 23 bug fixes, improvements and enhancements since 3.3.2.

This is primarily a security update; for this reason, upgrading is strongly advised.

Users are encouraged to read the overview of major changes since 3.3.2. For details of bug fixes, improvements, and other enhancements since the previous 3.3.2 release, please check release notes and changelog.

Release 3.2.3 available2022 Mar 28
This is the third stable release of Apache Hadoop 3.2 line. It contains 328 bug fixes, improvements and enhancements since 3.2.2.

Users are encouraged to read the overview of major changes since 3.2.2. For details of 328 bug fixes, improvements, and other enhancements since the previous 3.2.2 release, please check release notes and changelog detail the changes since 3.2.2.

Release archive →

News archive →

Modules
The project includes these modules:

Hadoop Common: The common utilities that support the other Hadoop modules.
Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS™): A distributed file system that provides high-throughput access to application data.
Hadoop YARN: A framework for job scheduling and cluster resource management.
Hadoop MapReduce: A YARN-based system for parallel processing of large data sets.
Who Uses Hadoop?
A wide variety of companies and organizations use Hadoop for both research and production. Users are encouraged to add themselves to the Hadoop PoweredBy wiki page.

Related projects
Other Hadoop-related projects at Apache include:

Ambari™: A web-based tool for provisioning, managing, and monitoring Apache Hadoop clusters which includes support for Hadoop HDFS, Hadoop MapReduce, Hive, HCatalog, HBase, ZooKeeper, Oozie, Pig and Sqoop. Ambari also provides a dashboard for viewing cluster health such as heatmaps and ability to view MapReduce, Pig and Hive applications visually alongwith features to diagnose their performance characteristics in a user-friendly manner.
Avro™: A data serialization system.
Cassandra™: A scalable multi-master database with no single points of failure.
Chukwa™: A data collection system for managing large distributed systems.
HBase™: A scalable, distributed database that supports structured data storage for large tables.
Hive™: A data warehouse infrastructure that provides data summarization and ad hoc querying.
Mahout™: A Scalable machine learning and data mining library.
Ozone™: A scalable, redundant, and distributed object store for Hadoop.
Pig™: A high-level data-flow language and execution framework for parallel computation.
Spark™: A fast and general compute engine for Hadoop data. Spark provides a simple and expressive programming model that supports a wide range of applications, including ETL, machine learning, stream processing, and graph computation.
Submarine: A unified AI platform which allows engineers and data scientists to run Machine Learning and Deep Learning workload in distributed cluster.
Tez™: A generalized data-flow programming framework, built on Hadoop YARN, which provides a powerful and flexible engine to execute an arbitrary DAG of tasks to process data for both batch and interactive use-cases. Tez is being adopted by Hive™, Pig™ and other frameworks in the Hadoop ecosystem, and also by other commercial software (e.g. ETL tools), to replace Hadoop™ MapReduce as the underlying execution engine.
ZooKeeper™: A high-performance coordination service for distributed applications.
Apache Hadoop, Hadoop, Apache, the Apache feather logo, and the Apache Hadoop project logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation in the United States and other countries

Copyright © 2006-2022 The Apache Software Foundation

Privacy policy

